So we're gonna go on to the next section
now, which is namespaces, right.
So far we've just been worrying
about the file system, but
we haven't been worrying
about other things, right?
So if I have two chroot'd environments
next to each other, right,
they can actually still see
each other's processes, right?
So if inside of one chroot'd environment,
I say ps, right,
which is how you I can
actually see that right here.
This shows me that I have this running and
this running, right?
These are the two processes
running at any given time, right?
So if I do this within each
chroot'd environments,
assuming that they both had all
the necessaries libraries and
all that kind of stuff, they can
see each other's processes, right?
So again, if I'm Company A, and
Company B is also running in there,
Company A can just say.
You know what?
Kill their web server, right?
Because they can see each
other's processes, right?
Seems like it would be problematic, right?
So that's what namespaces are.
Namespaces are these the idea of these
various different facets of Linux that we
can limit each one of these particular,
prop these jails processes to write or
these container environments.
So I can say, hey, you can only see your
own processes and you get your own process
IDs, and you get your own networking layer
and you can't mess with anyone else's.
You can only mess with
your own environment.
So I'm going to do something I'm gonna
say tale -f my new root or secret.txt.
So what this is gonna do,
this is gonna start a long
running process right now, right?
So it's just running this tail-secret.txt,
what this does is anything added to this,
it would start showing that.
But I'm just doing this to show you,
what happens if something is
just a long running process.
I'm gonna open another shell here.
And I'm going to connect to
that same Docker environment.
So I'm going to say Docker exec -it,
Docker -host bash.
This is going to open another
shell in the same container.
Right, so now 1 and 2 here are both
connected to the same container.
Does that make sense?
So if I say ps here, you can see,
That it has the same things running.
Right, cuz I have to do ps aux.
So you can see here it has tail -f, right?
So in order to see that,
I had to ask for more things, right?
That's what the aux does.
So you can see here,
I had this PID 103 which is the tail
that's running in the other process.
So if I say, docker kill, or
not docker, sorry, kill 103.
Now if I go back over here,
notice that this stopped, right?
It says, Terminated, right?
That's because from the other
connected shell I just said
kill that process, right?
So this is the issue that
we want to prevent, right?
We want to prevent people from
doing this to each other.
And so that's what namespaces
allow us to do, right?
So if I have these two
different processes.
I can say, hey, this one you can't see
what's happening over here and vice versa
and we're gonna do that with a environment
called, yeah, with namespaces, right?
That's what we're gonna do and
we're gonna use a command called unshare.
All right, so So I'm here in my same
container, and I have my new root here.
I'm actually going to
create a better root,
and I'm gonna show you how to do this.
So the first thing I want you
to do is say, apt-get update.
This is gonna go and update your list
of packages that you can download.
This should take, you can see
it's gonna download 11 megabytes.
And that did that.
And we're going to say apt-get install
deboostrap and I was, I debootstrap
that TST always messes me up, -y.
And again this little,
download a couple of tools so
that we can use a school called
debootstrap instead of having to go and
hand copy all of these various different.
It's gonna download a few things,
all these various different tools,
one by one and looking at their
libs to get the right things.
I'm going to show you how to use a tool
called debootstrap that's just gonna set
up an entirely new,
totally valid change-rootable environment.
So now that you've downloaded debootstrap,
we're gonna say, debootstrap,
--variant, Equals minbase which is
gonna download just the, the most minimal
amount of tools that you need possible.
You can tell what kind of you Ubuntu or
deviant to download for you.
I'm gonna say bionic because that's
what we've been using 18.04.
But you can probably say stretch here,
and it would work, stretch is Debian,
not Ubuntu, Ubuntu is based on
Debian if you're not aware of that.
Okay, and I'm gonna put that into slash
better root and again just so you know
this is gonna do about 150 megabytes worth
of download so just be aware of that.
If that's a thing for you,
then you can just watch and
you'll get most of this without
having to do this yourself.
So I'm going to run that.
This is gonna take probably about,
depending on how fast your Internet is,
up to three to five minutes, maybe?
Hopefully, since we have
pretty fast Internet here,
this should only take a minute.
But what this is actually gonna go do for
you is it's going to get a bare minimum
set of a file system that you need
to run a Debian based Ubuntu.
So debootstrap is actually
Debian bootstrap.
So when they're building containers for
Debian and for Ubuntu,
they actually use this tool to
bootstrap a brand new environment.
It and it's done with the idea that
you can chroot directly into it.
So they actually use this to like
build Ubuntu and stuff like that.
So we're kind of co-opting it for
own nefarious purposes.
So now this is finished bootstrapping,
debootstrapping, right?
So if I go into better root.
You can see here, it's got basically
everything that I saw up here, right?
It's got a tmp, var, usr, sys, srv,
run, all that kind of stuff, right?
So now I can say change route dot right
to be inside of this better route dash.
And you can see here it
everything works now
much better because it has all
of the various different tools.
So I look inside have bin,
you can see I have quite a bit,
quite a bit more tools
that I can use right.
In fact it's kind of even hard to tell the
difference of am I inside of the change
root environment or
am I inside the normal environment?
It's hard to tell.
Okay.
So now I can get out of this,
and I'm back into the normal one.
And now, we're gonna do
something called unshare, right?
So I'm gonna say unshare.
And here I have to tell it
everything to unshare from this
new process I'm creating right.
So I'm saying unshare the network,
unshare the file system,
unshare the UTF which is like
the the process managing system right?
So I'm gonna say unshare dash dash mount,
so unshare all the mounts.
The UTS which is the processes IPC, which
I cannot remember what is it at the time.
The network,
the PIDs which is the process IDs,
fork which again I don't remember,
users like all the users parts,
the map root-user.
Okay, and then you're gonna tell it what
to run with that unshared environment.
So I'm gonna say, run chroot, and
I wanna do it in /better-root,
and I want you to run bash, right.
So this chroot part,
that should look familiar to you.
That's exactly what we were doing before,
but now we're just adding unshare
in front of it to unshare all these name spaces,
right?
So now I'm in this, right, and
if I look at ps aux, it's gonna say,
hey, you need to mount
the process system first.
So go ahead and
run these commands with me as well
inside of your chroot'd environment.
I wanna say mount -t proc none /proc,
which is for processes.
And we're gonna do it again for
sysfs, sysfs none/sys.
And mount -t tmpfs none /tmp.
All right, so now that we've done that,
we can say ps aux, and
we can see here that it cannot
see outside of itself, right?
You look here that this bash, right, the
bash that we're in at the moment is PID
one, which is what we would expect, right?
But that's the one that's running inside
of the unshared, chroot'd environment.
It's not the one running outside of it.
In fact,
if we come back to our other shell,
that we've connected to
this if we say PS aux.
We can see the unshare,
we can see the bash,
we can even see all that kind
of stuff running cuz we can.
From the host,
we can see inside of the child but
the child cannot see outside of itself,
right?
So let's say if I say
again did the tail fs or
tail- F my rootsecret.txt right so
now this is running again.
If I go back to the other environment and
I say PS aux still can't see it, right?
And if I'd say tail F,
let's just say touch text or
text.txt and I said tail dash
F.txt that come here, stop this.
And I say ps aux again, you can see
this one can see the tail because it's
the parent process looking
into the unshared environment.
You can also see this bash here,
which is the one that's running down
inside of the unshared environment.
It's PID is actually like, 7536, right?
So it actually does, it maps these
pits to the host environment.
Now I'm showing you just processes right?
We actually unshared the network,
we unshared a bunch of other
stuff in this environment so
it is truly containerized in terms of
the name spaces that it can access, right?
So if I wanted this to be able to connect
to the network I would actually have to
create a separate network inside of here
and connect that to the host network,
which then would connect to
the broader network, right?
Not going to show you how to do it, mostly
because, I'm not really sure how to do it.
I could figure it out but
it would take a while and
this is kind of to drive
home the point that.
You can unshare these
namespace capabilities, right?
So change routing is like I am
sharing a file system right?
Namespace is about sharing capabilities
from these particular processes or
controlling the capabilities that
flow into these processes, right?
It makes sense.
>> And Brian, why do we need
you to run the mount command?
What did that do?
Do, often then shared.
>> So, the mount one, so that
the environment could know like taking
assets and the process system and
the system file system.
It doesn't do that
automatically by itself.
Whereas, when you start up the Ubuntu
process, it does do that stuff for you.
So, you just have to like mount all
this various different capabilities to
the operating system.
It just tell him,
this is where you find the stuff.
>> Kind of the usual library so
to speak, the index just go there there.
>> Yeah.
You had a question.
>> So the exit command that terminates
the process, does that also get rid of
the previously created container,
at all, when you exit on your terminal?
>> Yeah, so if I went back,
let's see, to this one and
I said exit here, this would
terminate this unshared environment.
And we go back to wherever it was, right?
So in this case because I'm just
doing it directly from the host,
it would send me back to the host.
But if you're connecting to my computer
and I want to limit you, I would just have
it if you exit it, it would just
exit out of the connection entirely.
>> Would be the housecleaning command
to see how many containers I have?
If I want to manage them,
delete some, how do you usually
go to navigate through them?
>> So typically,
you're not gonna be creating
containers by hand like this, right?
This is a wildly wasteful process,
it's more an academic exercise
than something you would ever do.
Docker has a bunch of stuff that
just does that for you, right?
So there's a thing says Docker PS, and
I'll show you all of
you running containers.
Does that answer your question?
Cool.
Let's go back to tell just one
more fun exercise I'm telling this
text thing as well, right?
And if I do Docker or not talker ps aux
again, to see all my running processes.
You can see here that I can actually
grab this PID right here and
I can totally say kill 7555, right?
Now if I go back over here inside
of the unshared environment,
it's been terminated, right?
So the host can still control everything
that's happening in the child process, but
the child process can't see out of it,
which is kinda fun.
And I could totally just
terminate the entire session.
In fact, let's do that as well, right?
Again, here if I do ps aux,
you can see this is PID 1,
but if I come back over here and
I say, I don't know why I keep
wanting to do that, docker ps aux.
If I come here and
I grab 7356 and I say, kill 7356.
You'll notice if we come back here,
it's done, it killed the entire process,
you can actually just kill
the entire container.